regimes/sg/README.md, before:

# 🇸🇬 GOBL Singapore Tax Regime

This document provides an overview of the tax regime in Singapore

---

## Overview of GST

Singapore offers a simple GST model with a standard rate along with a few exceptions. It also offers a few methods for invoicing which will be described further down. Singapore also uses a wide variaty of TIN alternatives as their GST registration number. GST is handled by the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore ([IRAS](https://www.iras.gov.sg/taxes/goods-services-tax-(gst)))

---

## Rates

1. Standard rate of **9%**. (Since 01/01/2024)
2. Zero-rate which applies to international services and export of goods.
3. Exempt Supplies which include financial services, sale and lease of residential properties, digital payment tokens, and the import of investment precious metals.

*Other tax rates such as 50% discount on selling price for second hand goods are not covered yet*

## Invoicing methods

There are three main methods for invoicing which will be described below. Other methods like credit notes and reverse billing have to follow the structure of a normal Tax Invoice.

### Tax Invoice

This invoice, reference in GOBL by the use of the tax tag "standard" represents a basic Invoice. This Invoice has to meet certain requirements:

1. The words “tax invoice” in a prominent place.
2. An identifying number (e.g. invoice number).
3. Date of issue of the invoice.
4. Supplier business name, address and GST registration number.
5. Customer’s name and address.
6. A description sufficient to identify the goods or services supplied and the type of supply.
7. For each description of goods or services supplied, the quantity of goods or the extent of services, and the amount payable, excluding GST.
8. Any cash discount offered.
9. The total amount payable (excluding GST), the GST rate and the total amount of GST chargeable.
10. The total amount payable (including the total amount of GSTchargeable).
11. A breakdown of exempt, zero-rated or other supplies, stating separatelythe gross total amount payable in respect of each type of supply.

### Simplified Tax Invoice

This invoice is referenced by the tax tag "simplified". This invoice can only be used when the total amount (inclusive of GST) is less than $1000. This invoice has less requirements:

1. Suplier name, address and GST registration number;
2. An identifying number, e.g. invoice number.
3. The date of issue of the invoice.
4. Description of the goods or services supplied.
5. The total amount payable including tax.
6. The word “Price Payable includes GST”.

### Reciept

This type of invoice can be issued to a non-GST registered costumer. This invoice requires the following:

1. Suplier name, address and GST registration number;
2. The date of issue of the invoice.
3. The total amount payable including tax.
4. The word “Price Payable includes GST”.

### GST Registration Number

There are multiple possiblities when it comes to GST reg nums. They can be a Unique Entity Number (UEN) which refers to business, they can be a National Registration Identity Card (NRIC) number or a Foreign Identification Number which refer to people, and they can be a unique GST reg num emmited by IRAS. Each code has its own validation rules along which have been implemented. Each type of code is still a valid GST registration number and must be included in all invoices.

### References

[GST General Guide for Businesses](https://www.iras.gov.sg/media/docs/default-source/e-tax/etaxguide_gst_gst-general-guide-for-businesses(1).pdf?sfvrsn=8a66716d_97)

[GST Rates](https://www.iras.gov.sg/taxes/goods-services-tax-(gst)/basics-of-gst/current-gst-rates)

Commit message:

updated readme with example reference

regimes/sg/README.md, after:

# 🇸🇬 GOBL Singapore Tax Regime

This document provides an overview of the tax regime in Singapore

Find example SG GOBL files in the [`examples`](../../examples/sg) (uncalculated documents) and [`examples/out`](../../examples/sg/out) (calculated envelopes) subdirectories.

---

## Overview of GST

Singapore offers a simple GST model with a standard rate along with a few exceptions. It also offers a few methods for invoicing which will be described further down. Singapore also uses a wide variaty of TIN alternatives as their GST registration number. GST is handled by the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore ([IRAS](https://www.iras.gov.sg/taxes/goods-services-tax-(gst)))

---

## Rates

1. Standard rate of **9%**. (Since 01/01/2024)
2. Zero-rate which applies to international services and export of goods.
3. Exempt Supplies which include financial services, sale and lease of residential properties, digital payment tokens, and the import of investment precious metals.

*Other tax rates such as 50% discount on selling price for second hand goods are not covered yet*

## Invoicing methods

There are three main methods for invoicing which will be described below. Other methods like credit notes and reverse billing have to follow the structure of a normal Tax Invoice.

### Tax Invoice

This invoice, reference in GOBL by the use of the tax tag "standard" represents a basic Invoice. This Invoice has to meet certain requirements:

1. The words “tax invoice” in a prominent place.
2. An identifying number (e.g. invoice number).
3. Date of issue of the invoice.
4. Supplier business name, address and GST registration number.
5. Customer’s name and address.
6. A description sufficient to identify the goods or services supplied and the type of supply.
7. For each description of goods or services supplied, the quantity of goods or the extent of services, and the amount payable, excluding GST.
8. Any cash discount offered.
9. The total amount payable (excluding GST), the GST rate and the total amount of GST chargeable.
10. The total amount payable (including the total amount of GSTchargeable).
11. A breakdown of exempt, zero-rated or other supplies, stating separatelythe gross total amount payable in respect of each type of supply.

### Simplified Tax Invoice

This invoice is referenced by the tax tag "simplified". This invoice can only be used when the total amount (inclusive of GST) is less than $1000. This invoice has less requirements:

1. Suplier name, address and GST registration number;
2. An identifying number, e.g. invoice number.
3. The date of issue of the invoice.
4. Description of the goods or services supplied.
5. The total amount payable including tax.
6. The word “Price Payable includes GST”.

### Reciept

This type of invoice can be issued to a non-GST registered costumer. This invoice requires the following:

1. Suplier name, address and GST registration number;
2. The date of issue of the invoice.
3. The total amount payable including tax.
4. The word “Price Payable includes GST”.

### GST Registration Number

There are multiple possiblities when it comes to GST reg nums. They can be a Unique Entity Number (UEN) which refers to business, they can be a National Registration Identity Card (NRIC) number or a Foreign Identification Number which refer to people, and they can be a unique GST reg num emmited by IRAS. Each code has its own validation rules along which have been implemented. Each type of code is still a valid GST registration number and must be included in all invoices.

### References

[GST General Guide for Businesses](https://www.iras.gov.sg/media/docs/default-source/e-tax/etaxguide_gst_gst-general-guide-for-businesses(1).pdf?sfvrsn=8a66716d_97)

[GST Rates](https://www.iras.gov.sg/taxes/goods-services-tax-(gst)/basics-of-gst/current-gst-rates)
