regimes/au/README.md, before:

# GOBL Australia Tax Regime

Goods and services tax (GST) is a broad-based tax of 10% on most goods, services and other items sold or consumed in Australia. It has a standard rate of 10%. There are products and services which are GST-free and are exempt from GST. Most basic foods, some education courses and some medical, health and care products and services are GST-free. You can still claim credits for the GST included in the price of purchases you use to make your GST-free sales.

Input-taxed sales are sales of goods and services that don't include GST in the price. You can't claim GST credits for the GST included in the price of your 'inputs'. The most common input-taxed sales are financial supplies (such as lending money or the provision of credit for a fee) and selling or renting out residential premises.

## Tax IDs

The main identifier for this tax is the Australian Business Number (ABN), an 11-digit number required to operate as a company in Australia. Alternatively, it is possible to use the Australian Company Number (ACN), a 9-digit identifier for invoicing. While every Australian business needs an ABN, only businesses registered as companies require an ACN.

## Additional Taxes

#### Wine Equalisation Tax (WET)

The Federal Government levies WET at the wholesale level at a rate of 29%, in addition to 10% GST, which is calculated on the price including the WET, and it applies to wine from grapes, fruit and certain vegetables, mead, and sake. Retailers do not receive an input tax credit for WET.

#### Luxury Car Tax

The luxury car tax is levied by the Federal Government at the rate of 33% of the value of the car that exceeds the luxury car tax threshold and is payable on the GST-exclusive value above the threshold. No input tax credit is available for luxury car tax, regardless of whether the car is used for business or private purposes.

#### Excise Duties

Excise duties are imposed at high levels on beer, spirits, liqueurs, tobacco, cigarettes, and petroleum products. Excise rates for tobacco, alcohol, and fuel are indexed bi-annually based on movements in the consumer price index (CPI).

Commit message:

Fixed AU Invoicing, Scenarios and Categories

regimes/au/README.md, after:

# GOBL Australia Tax Regime

Goods and services tax (GST) is a broad-based tax of 10% on most goods, services and other items sold or consumed in Australia. It has a standard rate of 10%. There are products and services which are GST-free and are exempt from GST. Most basic foods, some education courses and some medical, health and care products and services are GST-free. You can still claim credits for the GST included in the price of purchases you use to make your GST-free sales.

Input-taxed sales are sales of goods and services that don't include GST in the price. You can't claim GST credits for the GST included in the price of your 'inputs'. The most common input-taxed sales are financial supplies (such as lending money or the provision of credit for a fee) and selling or renting out residential premises.

## E-Invoicing Requirements

Australia uses the PEPPOL BIS Billing 3.0. e-invoicing format. E-Invoicing is not yet mandatory for businesses operating in Australia, although the confirmed migration schedule indicates that, by the 15th of November 2024, businesses will be mandated to support the PINT A-NZ specification. For Commonwealth agencies, e-invoicing is mandatory as of July 1st 2022 in Australia. 

## Tax IDs

The main identifier for this tax is the Australian Business Number (ABN), an 11-digit number required to operate as a company in Australia. Alternatively, it is possible to use the Australian Company Number (ACN), a 9-digit identifier for invoicing. While every Australian business needs an ABN, only businesses registered as companies require an ACN.

## Additional Taxes

#### Wine Equalisation Tax (WET)

The Federal Government levies WET at the wholesale level at a rate of 29%, in addition to 10% GST, which is calculated on the price including the WET, and it applies to wine from grapes, fruit and certain vegetables, mead, and sake. Retailers do not receive an input tax credit for WET.

#### Luxury Car Tax

The luxury car tax is levied by the Federal Government at the rate of 33% of the value of the car that exceeds the luxury car tax threshold and is payable on the GST-exclusive value above the threshold. No input tax credit is available for luxury car tax, regardless of whether the car is used for business or private purposes.

#### Excise Duties

Excise duties are imposed at high levels on beer, spirits, liqueurs, tobacco, cigarettes, and petroleum products. Excise rates for tobacco, alcohol, and fuel are indexed bi-annually based on movements in the consumer price index (CPI).
