regimes/pt/README.md, before:

# 🇵🇹 GOBL Portugal Tax Regime

Portugal doesn't have an e-invoicing format per se. Tax information is reported electronically to the AT (Autoridade Tributária e Aduaneira) either periodically in batches via a SAF-T (PT) report or individually in real time via a web service.

## Public Documentation

* [Portaria n.o 302/2016 – SAF-T Data Structure & Taxonomies](https://info.portaldasfinancas.gov.pt/pt/informacao_fiscal/legislacao/diplomas_legislativos/Documents/Portaria_302_2016.pdf)
* [Portaria n.o 195/2020 – Comunicação de Séries Documentais, Aspetos Específicos](https://info.portaldasfinancas.gov.pt/pt/apoio_contribuinte/Faturacao/Comunicacao_Series_ATCUD/Documents/Comunicacao_de_Series_Documentais_Manual_de_Integracao_de_SW_Aspetos_Genericos.pdf)
* [Portaria n.o 195/2020 – Especificações Técnicas Código QR](https://info.portaldasfinancas.gov.pt/pt/apoio_contribuinte/Novas_regras_faturacao/Documents/Especificacoes_Tecnicas_Codigo_QR.pdf)
* [Comunicação dos elementos dos documentos de faturação à AT, por webservice](https://info.portaldasfinancas.gov.pt/pt/apoio_contribuinte/Faturacao/Fatcorews/Documents/Comunicacao_dos_elementos_dos_documentos_de_faturacao.pdf)

## Local Codes

### `InvoiceType` (Tipo de documento)

AT's `InvoiceType` (Tipo de documento) specifies the type of a Portuguese tax document. The following table lists all the supported invoice types and how GOBL will map them with a combination of invoice type and tax tags:

| Code | Name | GOBL Type | GOBL Tax Tag |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| FT | Fatura, emitida nos termos do artigo 36.o do Código do IVA | `standard` | |
| FS | Fatura simplificada, emitida nos termos do artigo 40.o do Código do IVA | `standard` | `simplified` |
| FR | Fatura-recibo | `standard` | `invoice-receipt` |
| ND | Nota de débito | `credit-note` | |
| NC | Nota de crédito | `debit-note` | |

### `TaxCountryRegion` (País ou região do imposto)

AT's `TaxCountryRegion` (País ou região do imposto) specifies the region of taxation (Portugal mainland, Açores or Madeira) in a Portuguese invoice. GOBL will map them using the supplier's tax identity zone (ISO 3166-2:PT codes) as per the following table:

| Code | Name | GOBL Tax Identity Zone |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PT | Aveiro | `01` |
| PT | Beja | `02` |
| PT | Braga | `03` |
| PT | Bragança | `04` |
| PT | Castelo Branco | `05` |
| PT | Coimbra | `06` |
| PT | Évora | `07` |
| PT | Faro | `08` |
| PT | Guarda | `09` |
| PT | Leiria | `10` |
| PT | Lisboa | `11` |
| PT | Portalegre | `12` |
| PT | Porto | `13` |
| PT | Santarém | `14` |
| PT | Setúbal | `15` |
| PT | Viana do Castelo | `16` |
| PT | Vila Real | `17` |
| PT | Viseu | `18` |
| PT-AC | Região Autónoma dos Açores | `20` |
| PT-MA | Região Autónoma da Madeira | `30` |

### `TaxCode` (Código do imposto)

AT's `TaxCode` (Código do imposto) specifies the rate type of the VAT tax in a Portugese invoice. The following table lists the supported tax codes and how GOBL will map them from tax rate codes. (Please, note that there are multiple exempt tax rates mapping to the `ISE` code; see the `TaxExemptionCode` section below for the full list):

| Code | Name | GOBL Tax Rate |
| --- | --- | --- |
| NOR | Tipo Geral | `standard` |
| INT | Taxa Intermédia | `intermediate` |
| RED | Taxa Reduzida | `reduced` |
| ISE | Isenta | `exempt+*` _(see `TaxExemptionCode` below)_ |

### `TaxExemptionCode` (Código do motivo de isenção de imposto)

AT's `TaxExemptionCode` (Código do motivo de isenção de imposto) is a code that specifies the reason the VAT tax is exempt in a Portuguese invoice. GOBL will map them from tax rate codes as per the following table (Please, note that GOBL's tax rates are also used to map to `TaxCode`; see the `TaxCode` section above for details):

| Code | Description | GOBL Tax Rate |
| --- | --- | --- |
| M01 | Artigo 16.°, n.° 6 do CIVA | `exempt+outlay` |
| M02 | Artigo 6.° do Decreto-Lei n.° 198/90, de 19 de junho | `exempt+intrastate-export` |
| M04 | Isento artigo 13.° do CIVA | `exempt+imports` |
| M05 | Isento artigo 14.° do CIVA | `exempt+exports` |
| M06 | Isento artigo 15.° do CIVA | `exempt+suspension-scheme` |
| M07 | Isento artigo 9.° do CIVA | `exempt+internal-operations` |
| M09 | IVA - não confere direito a dedução / Artigo 62.° alínea b) do CIVA | `exempt+small-retail-scheme` |
| M10 | IVA - regime de isenção / Artigo 57.° do CIVA | `exempt+exempt-scheme` |
| M11 | Regime particular do tabaco / Decreto-Lei n.° 346/85, de 23 de agosto | `exempt+tobacco-scheme` |
| M12 | Regime da margem de lucro - Agências de viagens / Decreto-Lei n.° 221/85, de 3 de julho | `exempt+margin-scheme+travel` |
| M13 | Regime da margem de lucro - Bens em segunda mão / Decreto-Lei n.° 199/96, de 18 de outubro | `exempt+margin-scheme+second-hand` |
| M14 | Regime da margem de lucro - Objetos de arte / Decreto-Lei n.° 199/96, de 18 de outubro | `exempt+margin-scheme+art` |
| M15 | Regime da margem de lucro - Objetos de coleção e antiguidades / Decreto-Lei n.° 199/96, de 18 de outubro | `exempt+margin-scheme+antiques` |
| M16 | Isento artigo 14.° do RITI | `exempt+goods-transmission` |
| M19 | Outras isenções - Isenções temporárias determinadas em diploma próprio | `exempt+other` |
| M20 | IVA - regime forfetário / Artigo 59.°-D n.°2 do CIVA | `exempt+flat-rate-scheme` |
| M21 | IVA - não confere direito à dedução (ou expressão similar) - Artigo 72.° n.° 4 do CIVA | `exempt+non-deductible` |
| M25 | Mercadorias à consignação - Artigo 38.° n.° 1 alínea a) do CIVA | `exempt+consignment-goods` |
| M30 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 2.° n.° 1 alínea i) do CIVA | `exempt+reverse-charge+waste` |
| M31 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 2.° n.° 1 alínea j) do CIVA | `exempt+reverse-charge+civil-eng` |
| M32 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 2.° n.° 1 alínea I) do CIVA | `exempt+reverse-charge+greenhouse` |
| M33 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 2.° n.° 1 alínea m) do CIVA | `exempt+reverse-charge+woods` |
| M40 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 6.° n.° 6 alínea a) do CIVA, a contrário | `exempt+reverse-charge+b2b` |
| M41 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 8.° n.° 3 do RITI | `exempt+reverse-charge+intraeu` |
| M42 | IVA - autoliquidação / Decreto-Lei n.° 21/2007, de 29 de janeiro | `exempt+reverse-charge+real-estate` |
| M43 | IVA - autoliquidação / Decreto-Lei n.° 362/99, de 16 de setembro | `exempt+reverse-charge+gold` |
| M99 | Não sujeito ou não tributado | `exempt+non-taxable` |

Commit message:

Add reference to examples in regimes' READMEs

regimes/pt/README.md, after:

# 🇵🇹 GOBL Portugal Tax Regime

Portugal doesn't have an e-invoicing format per se. Tax information is reported electronically to the AT (Autoridade Tributária e Aduaneira) either periodically in batches via a SAF-T (PT) report or individually in real time via a web service.

Example PT GOBL files can be found in the [`examples`](./examples) (YAML uncalculated documents) and [`examples/out`](./examples/out) (JSON calculated envelopes) subdirectories.

## Public Documentation

* [Portaria n.o 302/2016 – SAF-T Data Structure & Taxonomies](https://info.portaldasfinancas.gov.pt/pt/informacao_fiscal/legislacao/diplomas_legislativos/Documents/Portaria_302_2016.pdf)
* [Portaria n.o 195/2020 – Comunicação de Séries Documentais, Aspetos Específicos](https://info.portaldasfinancas.gov.pt/pt/apoio_contribuinte/Faturacao/Comunicacao_Series_ATCUD/Documents/Comunicacao_de_Series_Documentais_Manual_de_Integracao_de_SW_Aspetos_Genericos.pdf)
* [Portaria n.o 195/2020 – Especificações Técnicas Código QR](https://info.portaldasfinancas.gov.pt/pt/apoio_contribuinte/Novas_regras_faturacao/Documents/Especificacoes_Tecnicas_Codigo_QR.pdf)
* [Comunicação dos elementos dos documentos de faturação à AT, por webservice](https://info.portaldasfinancas.gov.pt/pt/apoio_contribuinte/Faturacao/Fatcorews/Documents/Comunicacao_dos_elementos_dos_documentos_de_faturacao.pdf)

## Local Codes

### `InvoiceType` (Tipo de documento)

AT's `InvoiceType` (Tipo de documento) specifies the type of a Portuguese tax document. The following table lists all the supported invoice types and how GOBL will map them with a combination of invoice type and tax tags:

| Code | Name | GOBL Type | GOBL Tax Tag |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| FT | Fatura, emitida nos termos do artigo 36.o do Código do IVA | `standard` | |
| FS | Fatura simplificada, emitida nos termos do artigo 40.o do Código do IVA | `standard` | `simplified` |
| FR | Fatura-recibo | `standard` | `invoice-receipt` |
| ND | Nota de débito | `credit-note` | |
| NC | Nota de crédito | `debit-note` | |

### `TaxCountryRegion` (País ou região do imposto)

AT's `TaxCountryRegion` (País ou região do imposto) specifies the region of taxation (Portugal mainland, Açores or Madeira) in a Portuguese invoice. GOBL will map them using the supplier's tax identity zone (ISO 3166-2:PT codes) as per the following table:

| Code | Name | GOBL Tax Identity Zone |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PT | Aveiro | `01` |
| PT | Beja | `02` |
| PT | Braga | `03` |
| PT | Bragança | `04` |
| PT | Castelo Branco | `05` |
| PT | Coimbra | `06` |
| PT | Évora | `07` |
| PT | Faro | `08` |
| PT | Guarda | `09` |
| PT | Leiria | `10` |
| PT | Lisboa | `11` |
| PT | Portalegre | `12` |
| PT | Porto | `13` |
| PT | Santarém | `14` |
| PT | Setúbal | `15` |
| PT | Viana do Castelo | `16` |
| PT | Vila Real | `17` |
| PT | Viseu | `18` |
| PT-AC | Região Autónoma dos Açores | `20` |
| PT-MA | Região Autónoma da Madeira | `30` |

### `TaxCode` (Código do imposto)

AT's `TaxCode` (Código do imposto) specifies the rate type of the VAT tax in a Portugese invoice. The following table lists the supported tax codes and how GOBL will map them from tax rate codes. (Please, note that there are multiple exempt tax rates mapping to the `ISE` code; see the `TaxExemptionCode` section below for the full list):

| Code | Name | GOBL Tax Rate |
| --- | --- | --- |
| NOR | Tipo Geral | `standard` |
| INT | Taxa Intermédia | `intermediate` |
| RED | Taxa Reduzida | `reduced` |
| ISE | Isenta | `exempt+*` _(see `TaxExemptionCode` below)_ |

### `TaxExemptionCode` (Código do motivo de isenção de imposto)

AT's `TaxExemptionCode` (Código do motivo de isenção de imposto) is a code that specifies the reason the VAT tax is exempt in a Portuguese invoice. GOBL will map them from tax rate codes as per the following table (Please, note that GOBL's tax rates are also used to map to `TaxCode`; see the `TaxCode` section above for details):

| Code | Description | GOBL Tax Rate |
| --- | --- | --- |
| M01 | Artigo 16.°, n.° 6 do CIVA | `exempt+outlay` |
| M02 | Artigo 6.° do Decreto-Lei n.° 198/90, de 19 de junho | `exempt+intrastate-export` |
| M04 | Isento artigo 13.° do CIVA | `exempt+imports` |
| M05 | Isento artigo 14.° do CIVA | `exempt+exports` |
| M06 | Isento artigo 15.° do CIVA | `exempt+suspension-scheme` |
| M07 | Isento artigo 9.° do CIVA | `exempt+internal-operations` |
| M09 | IVA - não confere direito a dedução / Artigo 62.° alínea b) do CIVA | `exempt+small-retail-scheme` |
| M10 | IVA - regime de isenção / Artigo 57.° do CIVA | `exempt+exempt-scheme` |
| M11 | Regime particular do tabaco / Decreto-Lei n.° 346/85, de 23 de agosto | `exempt+tobacco-scheme` |
| M12 | Regime da margem de lucro - Agências de viagens / Decreto-Lei n.° 221/85, de 3 de julho | `exempt+margin-scheme+travel` |
| M13 | Regime da margem de lucro - Bens em segunda mão / Decreto-Lei n.° 199/96, de 18 de outubro | `exempt+margin-scheme+second-hand` |
| M14 | Regime da margem de lucro - Objetos de arte / Decreto-Lei n.° 199/96, de 18 de outubro | `exempt+margin-scheme+art` |
| M15 | Regime da margem de lucro - Objetos de coleção e antiguidades / Decreto-Lei n.° 199/96, de 18 de outubro | `exempt+margin-scheme+antiques` |
| M16 | Isento artigo 14.° do RITI | `exempt+goods-transmission` |
| M19 | Outras isenções - Isenções temporárias determinadas em diploma próprio | `exempt+other` |
| M20 | IVA - regime forfetário / Artigo 59.°-D n.°2 do CIVA | `exempt+flat-rate-scheme` |
| M21 | IVA - não confere direito à dedução (ou expressão similar) - Artigo 72.° n.° 4 do CIVA | `exempt+non-deductible` |
| M25 | Mercadorias à consignação - Artigo 38.° n.° 1 alínea a) do CIVA | `exempt+consignment-goods` |
| M30 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 2.° n.° 1 alínea i) do CIVA | `exempt+reverse-charge+waste` |
| M31 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 2.° n.° 1 alínea j) do CIVA | `exempt+reverse-charge+civil-eng` |
| M32 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 2.° n.° 1 alínea I) do CIVA | `exempt+reverse-charge+greenhouse` |
| M33 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 2.° n.° 1 alínea m) do CIVA | `exempt+reverse-charge+woods` |
| M40 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 6.° n.° 6 alínea a) do CIVA, a contrário | `exempt+reverse-charge+b2b` |
| M41 | IVA - autoliquidação / Artigo 8.° n.° 3 do RITI | `exempt+reverse-charge+intraeu` |
| M42 | IVA - autoliquidação / Decreto-Lei n.° 21/2007, de 29 de janeiro | `exempt+reverse-charge+real-estate` |
| M43 | IVA - autoliquidação / Decreto-Lei n.° 362/99, de 16 de setembro | `exempt+reverse-charge+gold` |
| M99 | Não sujeito ou não tributado | `exempt+non-taxable` |
